---
layout: post
title: Minecraft 1.21.9
---

Minecraft has entered The Copper Age! Express yourself in every shade of copper as you transform this versatile metal into handy tools, shiny armor, gleaming light sources, oxidizing decor, smart storage, and even lively mechanical companions known as copper golems.<br>

**CHANGELOG:**<br>

**New Features:**<br>
\* Added Copper Chest<br>
\* Added Copper Golem<br>
\* Added Copper Golem Statue Block<br>
\* Added Copper Equipment<br>
\* Added Copper Decorations<br>
\* Added Shelf<br>
\* Added light flashes to The End dimension<br>
\* Added Chat Drafts<br>
\* Added sound previews to the Music & Sound Options sliders<br>
\* Added the Minecraft Server Management Protocol<br>
\* Added support for servers to have an in-game Code of Conduct<br>
\* Added Halychian language support<br>

**Changes:**<br>
\* Performance improvements<br>
\* The Chain block has been renamed to "Iron Chain"<br>
\* Monster Spawn Eggs now have a tooltip warning when the difficulty is set to Peaceful<br>
\* Changes to world loading and the "Spawn Chunks"<br>
\* A dimension that has any player activity, forceloaded chunks, active portals, or Ender Pearls in flight will be considered "active" and will keep processing chunks and entities<br>
\* Reworked the debug overlay to be less cluttered and more configurable<br>
\* Players seen in the game world of the current server are now always shown in the Social Interactions screen even if they are offline<br>
\* Players now stop flying when switching from Spectator Mode to Creative Mode if they are near the ground<br>
\* Migrated several server properties into game rules<br>
\* OpenGL 3.3 is now required to play the game, up from 3.2. This does not change our posted Minimum Requirements<br>
\- Removed Herobrine<br>

**Technical Changes:**<br>
\* Pack versions now have minor versions<br>
\* The Data Pack version is now 88.0<br>
\* The Resource Pack version is now 69.0<br>
\* Some previously hidden debug features have been exposed to players<br>

**Developer's Notes:**<br>
\* We've fixed 149 bugs in this release.<br>
\* We do not expect the update to OpenGL version to affect many people, if any at all. Our posted Minimum Requirement has been OpenGL 4.0 since 2017, and OpenGL 3.3 turned 15 years old recently.<br>
\* Spawn chunks incur a memory and performance cost for all players and have outlived their initial technical purpose of keeping the spawn area ready for players to quickly join into.<br>
\* Previously, gathering the information every frame to render the F3 screen had a significant performance cost. So opening the screen to check your FPS noticeably dropped the FPS. Now checking your FPS in the Performance profile should not affect game performance.<br>
\* Although it is possible in Resource Packs, overriding Core Shaders is considered as unsupported and not an intended Resource Pack feature. These shaders exist as part of the internal implementation of the game, and as such, may change at any time as the game's internals evolve. We understand that overriding Core Shaders is used for very cool Resource Pack features, many of which lack supported alternatives. We would like to provide better, supported alternatives in the future.<br>
\* View the [full changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/article/minecraft-java-edition-1-21-9) on Minecraft.net<br>

**GET THE RELEASE:**<br>
Cross-platform server jar:<br>
\* [Minecraft server jar](https://piston-data.mojang.com/v1/objects/11e54c2081420a4d49db3007e66c80a22579ff2a/server.jar)<br>

Report bugs here:<br>
\* [Minecraft issue tracker!](https://bugs.mojang.com/projects/MC/summary)<br>

Want to give feedback?<br>
\* For any feedback and suggestions, head over to the [Feedback Site](https://feedback.minecraft.net).